大家好,我是東吳的校友,東吳會計系, 後來東吳國際上海學院跟Thunderbird雙聯這樣出去的校友,很開心有機會可以跟你們交流。 我今天也找了一個東吳的同學,Boris,等一下也會來跟你們分享一下,他也是這樣子出來的,然後目前在Thunderbird上課, 同時也在我們院長室工作,所以也許可以跟你們分享一下他自己的心路歷程。然後Danish他是我們招生部的同仁, 他就是特別今天來跟你們分享一下, 碩士啊雙聯啊的一些相關的細節。那他的部分會英文的介紹,然後Boris這邊會講中文,然後QA的地方看大家方便, 我們可以中英文切換。那Danish這邊我這邊Boris這邊都可以一起cover Q&A。OK大概是這樣,那without further ado,Danish, please take it away. Thank you so much.Hello everyone, let me just share my screen and we can get started.Alright.Can you see my screen? Thumbs up? Awesome, thank you.Hi everyone, my name is Danish Obeib, I am the associate director of recruitment outreach at Thunderbird.I am here today to speak about the MGM program and what your pathway looks like coming from your home university to Phoenix, Arizona to start the MGM program.Before I go into the details, I want to give you an overview about Thunderbird, our vision and our mission.So the vision of Thunderbird is a world shaped by global leaders who transform complexity into clarity,elevate technology with purpose, and drive responsible innovation across borders and sectors.And the mission of the school is to educate visionary leaders who innovate with a global digital mindset to shape future organizations for enduring impact.So Thunderbird, the whole idea of our school and our education is we're going beyond what a traditional business education has to offer.So what this means is we're looking at training leaders and attracting leaders to excel in not only the private sector, but also government, nonprofit, and also in their local or in their international communities.And our unique approach emerges technology with global thinking, empowering leaders to create future industries and ecosystems.A little bit of history about the school.Thunderbird was actually started in 1946 and it was started by a general after World War II who had this idea of creating a school where individuals from all over the world and individuals in the United States can get together and learn best business practicesand then choose to start businesses in the U.S., maybe in their home country or maybe in a third country.So in the 40s, this was really a unique concept at the time where there were all these international students, there were all these American students who were getting prepared to have this global career.So all of this to say if you come to Thunderbird, this idea of a global mindset, global education or training individuals to have that global career is not something new to Thunderbird.It's something that's been ingrained in the history and the DNA of the school.So Thunderbird today looks a lot different than it did in 1946.One of the biggest changes is now we're part of Arizona State University.And Arizona State University is one of the biggest public schools in the U.S.One of the biggest public schools in the world.So it has a very strong American brand.And I think that works really well with Thunderbird's brand, which is very strong globally.So for those students who maybe are coming from Arizona or Phoenix and want to have more of that global career, they can really tap into that Thunderbird side.And I think this works out really well for international students or international staff and faculty who maybe want to build more of a U.S. or an Arizona network.You have all of those Arizona State University resources as a student to really leverage and take advantage of.So now this is how our relationship works together with the school.So we are a college at Arizona State University.And what we do is really focus on training students and leaders to have a global education and global management and leadership skills.So at the very bottom, you can see how two really important rankings come together, which is that domestic and that global.So Thunderbird is number one in the world for international trade.That's a ranking that the school has had six years in a row.And then you combine that with number one in the U.S. for innovation.That's an Arizona State ranking.And that's the perfect combination of that global and that domestic brand that I was talking about.Again, another aspect of Thunderbird is really training leaders to think about future forward and future ready.What this basically means is right now we know that AI is very popular.It's becoming ingrained in really every industry.A lot of different roles are trying to figure out how to really leverage AI in their day-to-day job.And that's a really big aspect at Thunderbird where you may not get into the very technical side of it.There are opportunities to do that.But the main idea of the program is as a manager, how are you going to be able to leverage those technologies with your teams.So again, you may not be using it on a one-to-one basis, but you may understand the value of this technology.And you're going to get that learning from the education that you have at the school.And it's really about how can you leverage that as a business leader to really make those business improvements in your role.Again, just speaking more about how the school has more than just a business education, our students, when they graduate, they don't just go into those public or private sector, sorry, those private sector roles.We have students who graduate and they go into work for the state department or they might work for non-profit organizations or they might have an entrepreneurship idea, but it's a social entrepreneurship idea.So all that to say is that we're not just training one type of student like a typical MBA student that focuses on like finance or accounting.We're really training individuals to be leaders in whatever industry they want to go into to make really a difference.And speaking about the school and how it was formed in 1946, this idea of Thunderbird being global is not just something that's new to the school.We have students in 100 plus countries, alumni in 140 nations.So all that to say, if you come back, if you end up leaving after you're done at Thunderbird and you gain a little bit of U.S. work experience and you're interested in going back to Taiwan or maybe you created a connection to Mexico or to Brazil or somewhere in Europe, you can really continue to leverage that network while you're a student and after you graduate.And we have opportunities and resources for students to make sure that they can stay engaged with alumni.These rankings are really specific to Thunderbird.The number one in the world for international trade is something I've already mentioned.In the middle is our ranking in the U.S. for executive education.So we have a department at the school that's focused on just engaging companies and the idea is to provide them shorter courses.So this could be a certificate program over a week.It could be a custom program that we create for them.But all that to say is that we have those full-time graduate degree programs, but we also have an executive education department, and that really helps us really figure out what companies, what technologies they're using and what they're thinking about and what their business needs are.On the far right, we have our ranking for global reach and case writing.So one other thing that's very popular in graduate business schools is you read a lot of cases.So you will read a case and then you'll have to analyze it and come up with some sort of solution to whatever the problem in the case is.If that's something you really enjoy, maybe you want to come up with a case about your industry and you're going to come up with a solution for it.And then when you have a job interview, you can speak about the fact that you completed your education at Thunderbird.You have a master's of global management degree.This is what you learned.But in addition to that, you wrote a case that was very specific to your job or to your industry.So if that's something you're interested in, we have a case series club.That students can join in.They usually will host conferences and opportunities for speakers to come in.But there's also opportunities for you to work one on one with a professor and write a case if that's something you're interested in.So hopefully you're getting an idea of how global Thunderbird is and how worldwide the network of the school is.And I think our alumni gives you a really good example of that.So on the far left, the president of Iceland, she is a Thunderbird graduate.So you can see she's somebody who didn't go into that traditional business role.But to the right of her, we have the CEO and chairman of Johnson & Johnson, the CEO of Pepsi, Warner Brothers, and British Petroleum.So again, this gives you an example of when you graduate from a Thunderbird degree, it really is whatever you're interested in.You can go into that typical MBA consulting roles.You can go into product manager roles, which are very popular for MBA students.But a lot of the times, our students are coming from a background in maybe science or maybe legal studies, law, whatever other area.And they're interested in how can I combine that with a business background.So at the very bottom, you see how global our alumni is, 45,000 alumni.23% live outside of the U.S.And I think that number is getting higher and higher.There are students from 143 countries we've had and 170 chapters around the world.So I'll speak a little bit more about that.But the chapters are an opportunity for you to stay engaged with the school long after you graduate.Our regional network, so we have physical and virtual locations.And then we also have campuses in other areas of the U.S.So on the far left, our physical locations are U.S., Switzerland, UAE, Korea, and Indonesia.And then in the middle are virtual locations.And then on the far right, we have physical locations where we offer degree programs.That's in Los Angeles and in Washington, D.C.Those programs are more executive level programs.So there's not an opportunity for you to study there in the MGM program.But there's opportunities for you to engage with those centers and all of these centers here, if that's something that you're interested in.This is a picture of downtown Phoenix.So this is where you're going to be having the majority of your courses.I think this is a great picture of Phoenix.When you're at the school downtown, you can literally drive like 30 minutes, 40 minutes in any direction, and you can find a mountain.So if you're into hiking and outdoor activities, Phoenix is definitely a great place that you'll enjoy.So I spoke a little bit more about, I spoke previously in the alumni slide about how our students are able to like combine their background with a traditional business education.And I think this slide gives you a really good idea.So in a traditional MBA program, you will learn general business principles.It's primarily going to be training you to have a regional job or a domestic job.You're going to be focused on foundational business skills.So they'll want to teach you like accounting, finance, marketing, HR, strategy.That's a reason why a lot of companies like MBAs, because they have a general understanding in all of these areas.And they're really training you to go and be a manager or like a middle manager.So you combine.So how does that traditional MBA look with Thunderbird's global management and leadership business education?So Thunderbird is all about learning those practical business skills and leadership.But there's going to be a global context in all of your courses.So you might in your undergrad take a course, international business one and international business two.And that course is going to have everything that you need to know about international business.But at Thunderbird, one, we're teaching you finance and accounting and marketing and strategy and HR, all the things I mentioned that a business student learns.We're always teaching and encouraging our students like how do you look at that in a global context?So yes, these are general accounting practices in the US.But you might be a student who ends up working in Europe or in Southeast Asia.Or in somewhere in Latin America.And those regions have different accounting practices.And we start to like introduce those concepts to students early on.So that if they are interested in those roles, they can start thinking about, okay, this is how you do accounting in the US.But if I want to go to a different country, this is how it's going to look.Same thing with marketing.Marketing in a regional or domestic job, you're mostly going after that audience that lives there.At Thunderbird, you might learn how to do an expansion from one country to another.That's a different audience.You're going to be engaging it.So one of the things that motivates them versus your traditional audience that you were engaging with before.In addition to that, there's a strong emphasis on international relations skills.So my example that I just gave before that was all about like learning the accounting and learning the marketing.But we also want to make sure that we train individuals to really develop those international relations.So that is another reason why I think so many US companies like hiring Thunderbird students.Because they know that if we hire the student and we want tosend them to one country and then send them to another country,most likely the countries we're sending them to, they were in a class at Thunderbird where they met students from those cultures.So they understand different negotiation styles,different communication styles.So in addition to those business skills,there's a very strong emphasis on having those international relations.So because of that, a lot of our students are looking for those international roles where they're going to develop cultural intelligence and global strategy.And all that really leads to having roles in those multi-national organizations like PepsiCo or British Petroleum working for NGOs and global agencies that allow students to really move from country to country or from region to region.So what type of students are you looking for?If any of these things really speak to you, even if it's one bullet point or two bullet points, but these are the kind of students that really come to Thunderbird and excel at Thunderbird.So students always ask about like things like our acceptance rate.I would focus less on that and I would focus more on the type of student you're going to be in a classroom with.So one thing that's really unique to our school is a second language requirement.In my time working in graduate management education, I don't think there's any school I've seen in North America at least that has a second language requirement, which I think is really unique, which is how we're training students to really access that global marketplace.Another thing is a multicultural upbringing.A lot of the times our students may be born in one country and because of their parents' careers, they might have went to boarding school in a second country, then they're undergrad in a third country, and now they're comfortable with coming to US for their graduate education.And when they come to Thunderbird, they meet a lot of these students that they can relate to to be like, oh, you were born in one country, but you had this really interesting multicultural and global experience.If you don't have that background, you don't speak a second language, you don't have a multicultural upbringing.We also want to attract students who want to develop that.So it's not like we want the Polish students who already have this background.If you're interested in developing that, a lot of times our US students don't speak a second language.They have not really traveled outside of the US.So we really get a lot of those US students who are like, I've always wanted to go and work in Indonesia.How could I make that happen?There'll be students from Indonesia who can really give them that insight.And then as we get to the program side, I'll show you how there's actually opportunities to go and do a consultant project there.Also a desire to network and grow.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.If you want to develop that global business acumen or maybe just one bullet point applies to you, I think you're going to find other like-minded students at the school, and that's what's really going to make your student experience.As you can see, we have students represented from many different countries.So again, if you're looking at the global business acumen, you're going to find a lot of opportunities to work abroad.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.If you want to develop that global business acumen, or maybe just one bullet point applies to you, I think you're going to find other like-minded students at the school, and that's what's really going to make your student experience.As you can see, we have students represented from many different countries.So again, if you're looking at the global business acumen, you're going to find a lot of opportunities to work abroad.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again,so again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again,so again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again, not all of these things have to apply to you.So again these are the concentrations that we offer within the program.So like I said, most MBA programs will focus on finance or accounting or marketing.At Thunderbird, these are the concentrations that we have.So the most popular one students go into is global business.Global business, you can think of it as like an international business degree, which is why it's so popular.That's what we're known for.So a lot of students will kind of default into that.Also it's STEM designated.So STEM designated in the U.S. gives international students as aexpert opportunities to work in the U.S.So it basically gives you a longer period that you can stay and work here with an employer.That's another reason why a lot of international students will end up doing global business, because it has a STEM background.But that is not the only STEM designated concentration.We also have global digital transformation.And that is basically what I was speaking about earlier, how to leverage AI and all these future technologies.Also a STEM designated degree.And then we have data science at the very bottom.Data science is very popular.So it's a very popular one for students that are coming from science or a math background.And I think that is a very popular and a very strong concentration to combine with like a management or business degree.So those three are the STEM designated ones.They tend to be the most popular.But then after that, you can see we have legal studies, health care delivery, public administration, non-profit leadership and management, global health care, sustainability.So this is the in addition to the type of student that we want.This is what I really want students to understand that whatever your background is, you can come to Thunderbird and combine your previous background, whether it was work experience or your undergrad or whatever your interest is with that business degree.So it's very interesting.We have students who graduate and they make their MGM degree very much like international business MBA.And they're the ones who go into those consulting, global consulting, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global business, global businessThis is how the OnePlus One Pathway is going to look for you as a student. So before you come to Phoenix, you're going to already complete 12 credit hours. And how you're going to complete those credit credit hours is going to be shared between your school and Thunderbird. So before, when you're completing your your master's degree, we'll have credits that we recognize and 12 credit hours are going to go into the MGM program. So that's going to bring the 49 down to 37. Then when you start your first semester in spring, in January, you're going to complete 15 credit hours. That's three MGM courses and two elective courses. So each course is typically three credit hours. So three courses times three credit hours are nine credit hours. And the remaining six credit hours will come from these two elective courses. So you're going to take five courses in your first semester. Then you're going to have that global challenge lab. So this is an international consulting project. You get two. It's basically two courses, but you get six credit for it. It's a project where you work in teams and you either go to a domestic location in the US or you go to an international location. I'll have more information about that in the coming slides. And then your final semester, you're going to complete one MGM course for elective courses and something called PLD, which is personal leadership and development. This is a course that you take that is related to the Career Management Center and your career coach. So this is what it's typically going to look like. You will have 12 credit hours that are shared from your degree into the other MGM program. So you'll already be completed four classes or 12 credit hours. And then when you're at Thunderbird, you're going to have spring where you complete five courses. You'll have the summer. You'll do a consulting project. And then you'll complete your remaining six courses in your final semester. This slide, the point of this slide is to show you how your concentrations work. So when I had that slide where I was showing you global business or data science or global digital transformation, when you take those elective courses, those are all offered through graduate programs at ASU. So you're going to be with other graduate students at that ASU college taking those courses together. So it's a very high level course. If you're doing something in global business like supply chain, you're going to be with W.P. Carey students, which is the School of Business at ASU. If you're going to be doing global legal studies, you're going to be taking that with law school students. Same thing with communication courses or arts courses or public service courses. So whenever you complete your elective courses, it's a really cool opportunity for again to grow that ASU network because you'll have your Thunderbird core elective, Thunderbird core courses. And then your elective courses could be completed at a completely different college at Arizona State. And that could be sustainability or the law school. If you end up doing global affairs, global entrepreneurship or global digital transformation, all those courses are specifically at Thunderbird. So those are the only concentrations where your whole experience will be at Thunderbird. But if you want to kind of have an experience where you're going to different ASU colleges or campuses, you can see that you'll be with those other graduate level students. Global Challenge Lab. So this is what you're going to complete in the summer. So this is our six credit consultate course for all master students in the MGM program. And this is a great way to really combine what you learned in your previous master's degree in your first semester at Thunderbird with an actual practical project. So teams of four to six, you work full time with a client during a seven week module. You're not left on your own. You're usually mentored by a Thunderbird faculty. And the whole idea is you meet with the client on Zoom beforehand. You figure out what the statement of work is, what the deliverables are, what the expectations are. And then you'll spend three weeks physically at the client site. So you'll be a consulting team. You'll go in every day. You'll have maybe customers or employees that you interview, depending on whatever the deliverable is. And then you'll come back to Phoenix and you'll present your finding. And students with kind of like the top projects, the top findings, they get to present that in front of the school. And for a lot of students who may not have professional work experience or international experience, this is an opportunity for you to talk about both things together. I think this is a great way to stand out. You can talk to an employer that you were a student from Taiwan, then you went to the US, and then you did your COPA consulting project in Canada or in Chile or in Saudi Arabia. And I think that really shows the employer that, while the student is pretty young, but they were able to really develop the global mindset by doing a global challenge lab, by doing a one plus one exchange. So this is a great way to kind of just keep building on that international experience that you're developing. These are the countries and the companies that our students work for. So you can see so many different countries all throughout the world. And something recently we started developing is more projects within the US. A lot of our students are speaking about the fact that they want more US work experience. And because of that, we're partnering with more US companies. But we do also have a big majority of students who want to really go abroad. And usually it really works out very well if the global challenge lab happens to be in the country they want to work in. That's a great way for you to network with that employer. Maybe ask them that you may not be hiring, but I'm interested in this role. What would you recommend for me to do if you've established that relationship? So the students who leverage this experience are really able to hit the ground running and have that global career pretty early in their career. So in terms of the admission requirements, we're going to make a pretty like a seamless process for you because we have a one plus one partnership. But I just want to maybe I just want to go over all of the kind of general requirements that all students have to go through. So the first thing is going to be an undergrad degree because this is a master's program. To go into a master's program, you usually need undergrad degree. Pretty straightforward. English proficiency. So there's two ways that you can meet the English proficiency requirement. If everything was taught in English at your university, then you don't need English proficiency. I'm sorry. Then all you need is to show us a medium instruction and that will meet the English proficiency requirements. If everything was not taught in English at your school, no worries. We do accept TOEFL, IELTS, PTE or Duolingo scores. Minimum GPA we're looking for is three is kind of like the minimum. Typically students who apply to the program have a higher GPA requirement. They also may be a higher requirement for you to be a one plus one student. So make sure you speak with your advisor to make sure if you're eligible for but for Thunderbird, you have to have a minimum of three. Everything is submitted through an online application. So ASU has an online graduate application. And on that you can upload your resume. You have an essay that you upload. Also one reference. This can be a work reference or an academic reference. And then you upload all your transcripts. So your undergrad, your graduate and any other schools you've you've attended. And then the highlighted part admissions interview. So usually all of our students do the admissions process. They do an admissions interview with an alumni. Usually it's an alumni maybe from your home country or from your industry or has some sort of tie in what you're interested in. And they're really trying to figure out that Thunderbird fit. So this is where it's very important. I would say look into like why you want to come to Thunderbird. If the things about the second language, having a global career, developing a global business acumen, you know, wanting to learn multiple languages. If that speaks to you, talk about that in your interview, even if you don't have a lot of work experience. And it will really demonstrate to the alumni that, OK, this student might be very early and young in their career, but they are a very good fit for Thunderbird. And if you're a good fit for Thunderbird, if they end up giving you a higher score, all of that can really influence the admissions decision. So I would say take that admissions interview very seriously. It could be your very first time you're meeting a Thunderbird alumni and you want to kind of bring your best foot forward and really show them why you'd be a good candidate at the school. Finally, this is the last slide I wanted to show to you. This is just ways you can get in touch with us. The QR code, if you scan that, hold that up with your phone, it will take you to the Masters of Global Management webpage. We'll have more information about concentrations, global challenge lab, the faculty that you can learn from and also have all of this contact information. So you can take a quick picture or you can scan this and I'll share all this information after our meeting today. Thank you, Danish. Thank you so much. Forrest, the floor is yours. So the opportunities that you need to discover yourself as a student, like the community, the courses, the opportunities to work, are all in Thunderbird that will give you the resources. But where are the resources? You might have to constantly go and ask, like Danish or Helen, or other friends, to find out. Then, I've been here for half a year now. I want to tell you that the double-edition is a really good opportunity. Because you can apply for a relatively low cost for one school abroad and then get a scholarship for two schools, and then reduce your cost pressure and then go to a place where you want to dream. If you have a dream for the United States, then everyone knows that Arizona is currently a very, very developed place. Because of the relationship with TSMC, there are a lot of Taiwanese businesses and a lot of opportunities here. So if you have the opportunity to come, it's very, very good. Also, as a student, I know that as Taiwanese, we must go to the English test. I want to tell you a good news that I personally think is good. ASU and Thunderbird not only agree with GRE or TOEFL and AS, but also agree with the TSMC. If you have some pressure on these English, then TSMC will be a good idea. At present, I think you are still in the pending process of learning the double-edition. Because the TSMC has already been established, so if you want to come right away, then you can also apply for it at the business school. But why is the double-edition so important? There is another reason, because as long as there are double-editions, you can make the tuition a base. The base of the tuition is very, very important because it is because you can save some difficult subjects here. It's just to learn in Chinese, to learn in English, which is a difficult subject. And then you can use it here. There is another benefit, because the tuition here is calculated according to the tuition. So if you want to get a higher tuition here, you have to save a sum of money. So if you can get the tuition first, it will be a good opportunity for you. So I personally look forward to using the double-edition. Then go to the University of the Animals. The double-edition of the University of the Animals is compared to other schools. There is another advantage, you basically just have to work hard yourself. You will have a high chance of getting hurt because you don't have to compete with other students. You don't have to compete with other students. If I know that the schools in TSMC are very good, they also have double-edition. But they have to go through a round of selection when they are in school. But the University of the Animals, basically, I have never experienced it myself. So the University of the Animals will be a very good one. You want to come to study abroad, a very important, very important challenge. And the University of the Animals is very, very supportive of how you do it. And then, yes, this is what I am sharing here. If it's about the course part, the more special thing about this place is that, like Bench said, all the majors here are through your selection course to decide your final major. So it's not that you decide when you come in. It's not that you know when you graduate. Which one is your degree? Which one is your major? It's not that you decide which one you take. It's that you decide in the course of your entire selection process, based on the degree you choose. There is an important thing here. You can check out Thunderbird's website. Thunderbird has 16 majors at the moment. There are three of them in these 16 majors. The three STEM majors are the ones you want. If you want to stay in the United States and continue working in the future, the STEM program can ensure that after you graduate, because all the Americans, all the foreigners, basically, they will get something after graduation. They can apply for something called OPT. OPT only has one year. This one year is the time you have a chance to work in this one year. You can go out and find a job opportunity. But this OPT only has one year. So most Americans, most American companies won't harm you. Because if you only have one year here, for them, they will have to keep changing people. Their cost will be very high. But with STEM, it's the STEAM program. It can add another two years to a year. So you can stay in the United States for at least three years. Then you can get more opportunities than others. That's the advantage. The interesting thing is that I think Thunderbird is a very, very good school. Why? Because the Thunderbird School is a school. According to the principle, a certificate like this, it only has these projects, or the kind of medical school that can get it. But Thunderbird School has three professions that have this kind of STEM. So for a school, this is a very, very good achievement. This is going to give our own school a round of applause. Except for its good ranking. Then add it to the students' very, very much support and opportunities. There is another interesting thing. Because Thunderbird School is a very, very international school. So you're not only meeting people from all over the country. You will meet a lot of students of cross age. So you can communicate here to a very, very different person and different things and different industries. I personally think this is basically in Taiwan in your profession when you roll your own professional you may not encounter things you may not happen at a meeting you may meet a group of CEOs and then get along with these CEOs you can get some of your personal good things for a student my personal experience is I am in a Helen recommended me to go to the meeting inexplicably met a insurance company boss this insurance company boss recommended just let us go to the MBA for free and then enter VIP room this is a you are in Taiwan basically you can not imagine the thing this is my personal dream the main reason for existence so if you really want to go abroad and then the United States is a you are not so hateful place that I personally think Thunderbird is a good school and then it is a you can go to the United States a very I personally think it is a a good, a very fast way really very, very hot morning 9 o'clock 9 o'clock in the morning at 10 o'clock in the morning is the temperature of 41 degrees is you do not want to go out is you do not want to go out and then the whole day will start to cut that right and then probably like this if there is any question want to ask me is to ask welcome later is the question of the link can ask is the application process or what that you last I want to make up the last one I want to make up is because Thunderbird it is actually hanging under the ASU so just the president mentioned that the president mentioned a problem is to see if it can be is to have an independent person to contact us part of the brain basically basically like basically there will be an advisor is this academic advisor will contact you this advisor is he as long as he is a student basically you are looking for him to contact but in the process of your application ASU will send a person to talk to you specifically this talk to you specifically is that he will tell you all the application process you now what you need to do so is ASU to ASU Thunderbird to Thunderbird but they will finally will be together in the end so basically there will be an independent person to do with you just to see if you are not you are not lucky to meet him that's about it thank you thank you Boris see if you have any questions if you have any questions you can raise your hand and then we can have a chat Helen later I'll go to another one I hope thank you professor I hope that if you have any questions just take this opportunity to bring it up then the rest is up to Mr. Lv thank you thank you see if you have any questions ok bye bye don't be afraid speaking Chinese is ok Boris answer because we are actually under ASU it's actually quite wonderful like this morning Korean and a group of people visit Taiwan the first stop is to visit ASU so this morning we also received them so actually in ASU so it's also a group of friends yeah so it's also quite a lot of wonderful opportunities to meet all kinds of people yeah or is it because Danish and Boris talked too well so everyone has no questionsI think you guys are did such a great jobso no questions maybe Mr. Lv, what do you think we should do how do you think to do this yeah, I'll add something later I'll see if there are any questions from the students I think I can ask again about the application I think just now Boris said something special actually其實我們學院跟雷鳥這邊簽署的其實有一部分就是有Data Science那部分Data Science其實就是STEM的其中一個一個part所以如果你們很有興趣的話我覺得可以考量一下就是大概會有一點點不太一樣因為如果你去你join的那個Data Science那部分其實你是必須要到他們的School of Computing那邊還有一個是記得上一次有說是不是Engineering那邊是不是就有兩個不是單純在在Thunderbird這一邊而已所以你會接觸到的會比較技術層面的東西我覺得可以去看一下這些相關的內容第二個就是我想其實這個說明會非常非常重要的是它可以加速你後面在所有的準備的事項上面我想因為不管是Heron或者是Danish或者是Boris這一邊其實他們非常非常有經驗你們的疑慮其實他都會盡量想辦法幫你們說明然後解決因為我想第一個可能大家會比較比較需要特別去了解就是學費跟獎學金的這個部分有沒有一些什麼樣的方法可以協助你去拿到比較好的獎學金另外一個其實剛Boris特別提到有沒有抵免如果你今天去走商學院的那邊那商學院他們有訂了一些抵免的規則所以就等於你要修了商學院的那些課你就可以拿來做抵免但是如果你是走巨資學院這一邊的那巨資學院這邊我們有訂了一些規則所以等於你必須要修滿修到那幾門課你就可以拿來做抵免抵免很重要的其實就是剛Boris講的省掉的12學分的錢應該還蠻客觀的所以我覺得大概有一些相關的東西相關的內容提早做準備因為我看起來如果順利的話我們申請的那個program應該是明年8月的那個program明年8月那個program你等於今年就得要開始去準備相關的內容有很多可能你必須要在今年年底需要去了解甚至完成的因為今年我問一下Heron如果我們的那個合約還沒簽完的話他們現在還是可以送申請對不對這樣就是適用我的理解是這樣那天跟院長溝通的時候這是我的理解沒錯因為他們現在的first round的申請應該是在今年的11月30號他們有一個first round然後second round是在明年的1月30third round會到3月30所以大概會有幾round不一樣的申請所以大家可以稍微思考一下好Danish各位那Heron先因為我想說Danish要不要請他說一下獎學金的事情會有興趣Danish你想說一下學金的事情你會講一下學金例如計劃獲得更高的學金那種東西當然我們如何評論學金的學生是GPA是我們第一次做這個但並不是唯一的事我還沒提到我們有那個申請的面試很多時候在面試中學生會給學生一個分數所以如果沒有很多國際經驗或工作經驗如果你想要來來Thunderbird你會如何有利如何能夠參與學生網站我覺得這是一種方法讓你站出來另外你會有你的學生你會跟學生交流所以你的交流跟學生交流非常重要當他們發電郵你會問你給你一個更新如果你是負責任的你是專業的他們會建議你贊助學生因為可能會有機會我們的執行長會跟學生交流問你哪些學生你會聽到那些很有活力很負責任的然後他們會建議你所以你會有GPA可能已經在你手上因為你已經讀了學生學位但你可以找到學生GPA你的教育可以有分別學生面試然後你的交流跟學生交流另外兩方面面試和交流例如是專業的你可以控制你所在的交流所以我會專注在那些不要太擔心GPA我們有三個小節如果你是3.43.5你正在學習你不需要提升GPA我不會推薦我會專注在你的試驗你的個人聲明跟探索到Thunderbird在那裡花時間做這個因為你會很驚訝很多學生沒有準備好去做學生面試在面試中很清楚這學生不知道Thunderbird或MGM的學位與其他學生真的做了他們的研究我會推薦他們所以我會說專注在所有部分謝謝教授還有什麼我再請教一下Boris這邊是已經畢業了還是正在就學當中我正在就學OK我就幫學生再問一個問題好了我想可能他們會比較以前我們在看大家去那邊可能會有一些像TA或是一些其他的工作來支援他們的一些財務的部分我想知道這個在Thunderbird這邊大概一般的學生大家會怎麼進行這一塊好不好謝謝基本上來說工作的部分有分三塊它還蠻複雜的三塊的部分一個是學校開的intern就是跟實習差不多然後就是我們一般認知的認知的實習我現在目前在黑人下面工作就是用掛intern的方式還有另外一個是CPT跟OBTOBT的話就是我剛剛說的就是你畢業之後去外面工作CPT的部分就是你畢業之後你畢業之後去外面工作CPT的部分就是你在學的期間你可以去外面工作可是這一個工作的話就是你要自己去找你找到offer之後你要回來跟Danish他們的部門去說然後說完之後要去跑學校的整個流程然後確定你可以拿到CPT之後你才可以開始工作這個CPT的話它有一個最緊繃的要求就是你至少必須要是in person的學生在這間學校待至少兩個學期所以雙聯學位的學生如果是以春季入學來說的話你雙聯學位你會經歷三個學期就是春季夏季跟秋季所以就是你最快開始可以去外面工作的時間是秋季可是不管是CPT或者是intern你身為一個外籍學生CPT或intern你一個禮拜最多就是不能超過20個小時OK對然後CPT的話基本上來說大家都會鼓勵說你一定要你在提申請的時候因為你要提出你為什麼要去這間公司工作的理由所以這個公司工作理由必須要跟你的專業做掛鉤它不是所有工作它都會承認就是你不能去麥當勞端就是端板子然後跟大家說我想去外面工作就是你可能要去找跟你的專業相關的東西然後來跟學校說我因為這樣所以我必須要在外面累積工作經驗對OK


【內容摘要】
本說明會介紹東吳大學巨量資料管理學院與美國亞利桑那州立大學（ASU）雷鳥全球管理學院（Thunderbird School of Global Management）合作推動的「1+1」全球管理碩士（MGM, Master of Global Management）雙聯學位學程。
內容由雷鳥招生部副主任 Danish Obeib 與在校東吳校友 Boris、校友 Helen 共同說明：
1. 雷鳥學院特色：國際貿易全球第 1、全美創新力第 1（ASU），強調全球視野與跨文化領導力。
2. 雙聯模式：東吳修讀抵免 12 學分，赴美 1 年修讀 37 學分（含春季、夏季 Global Challenge Lab 海外顧問專案、秋季學期）。
3. STEM 認證與 OPT：提供「全球商業」、「全球數位轉型」、「資料科學」等 STEM 領域專長，畢業享有 3 年留美工作許可（OPT）。
4. 申請要件與打工/實習規定（CPT/OPT、台積電亞利桑那設廠帶來之龐大就業機會）。

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
【內文重點整理】
一、Thunderbird（雷鳥全球管理學院）核心優勢
* 頂尖排名：國際貿易領域全球排名第 1（連續多年），ASU 創新力全美第 1。
* 跨文化與跨領域：全球超過 45,000 名校友，遍布 140 多國。課程不僅教授商管基礎，更融入跨文化談判、全球策略與地緣政治素養。
* 在地契機：隨著台積電（TSMC）於亞利桑那州鳳凰城設廠，當地台資與跨國科技供應鏈聚落迅速擴展，工作與實習機會大幅增加。

二、「1+1」雙聯學位路徑規劃
* 學分抵免：在東吳碩士期間修讀的課程可獲雷鳥認可抵免 12 學分，總修業學分由 49 學分降至 37 學分（大幅節省學分費）。
* 赴美修業時程（1 年）：
  1. 春季學期（1-5月）：修讀 15 學分（3 門核心 + 2 門選修）。
  2. 夏季學期（6-7月）：執行 Global Challenge Lab（全球挑戰實驗室），為期 7 週的 6 學分跨國企業顧問實務專案（前進加拿大、智利、沙烏地阿拉伯或美國本土企業實地診斷）。
  3. 秋季學期（8-12月）：修讀 16 學分（1 門核心 + 4 門選修 + PLD 個人領導力發展課程）。

三、STEM 認證專長與留美就業（OPT 延長至 3 年）
雷鳥 MGM 學程提供 16 種 Concentration，其中包含三大熱門 STEM 認證專長：
1. Global Business（全球商業）
2. Global Digital Transformation（全球數位轉型與 AI 科技應用）
3. Data Science（資料科學，與 ASU 電腦學院/工學院合開）
* 優勢：一般商管學位僅有 1 年 OPT 工作許可；選讀 STEM 專長可獲得「1 年 OPT + 2 年 STEM Extension = 3 年留美合法工作權利」，大幅提升美國企業聘僱意願。

四、申請要件與獎學金申請要訣
* 門檻：大學學士學位、GPA 3.0 以上。
* 英文檢定：採認 TOEFL、IELTS、PTE 及 Duolingo（多鄰國）。
* 獎學金申請關鍵：招生主任 Danish 指出，雷鳥獎學金評定除了看基本 GPA，最看重「英文線上面試表現」與「主動專業的溝通互動」。展現對雷鳥價值的理解、跨文化企圖心與個人特色，往往比單純衝高 GPA 更具優勢。
* 校內工讀與實習（CPT）：
  - 在美就讀滿兩個學期（春+夏）後，秋季學期起可申請 CPT（Curricular Practical Training）進行校外合法實習（每週上限 20 小時，須與專業相關）。
  - 在校期間亦可申請校內行政助教或 Intern 職缺以補貼生活支出。

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Helen（東吳會計系校友、Thunderbird 雙聯校友）：
大家好，我是東吳的校友 Helen。很開心有機會跟學弟妹交流。今天特別邀請在 Thunderbird 上課且在院長室實習的 Boris 同學，以及雷鳥招生部副主任 Danish Obeib，一起為大家介紹碩士雙聯學位的細節。

Danish Obeib（Thunderbird 招生部副主任）：
（英文演說精要）
Thunderbird 成立於 1946 年，如今隸屬於全美公立名校亞利桑那州立大學（ASU）。學校願景是培養具有全球數位思維的未來領袖。我們在國際貿易領域長年蟬聯全球第一，結合 ASU 全美創新第一的品牌優勢，將商業管理教育與 AI、未來科技實務深度結合。

Thunderbird 在全球擁有超過 45,000 名校友、遍布 140 餘國。我們的課程核心在於「全球情境領導力」，教導學生在不同文化背景下進行談判、行銷與財務運營。

在碩士專業模組（Concentrations）中，我們提供三大獲得美國官方 STEM 認證 的學程：
1. Global Business（全球商業）
2. Global Digital Transformation（全球數位轉型）
3. Data Science（資料科學）
國際學生就讀 STEM 學程，畢業後享有長達 3 年的在美工作許可（OPT），是進入跨國企業極具優勢的途徑。

透過與東吳大學的「1+1」合作路徑：
* 學生在東吳先修讀並抵免 12 學分。
* 赴美僅需完成剩餘 37 學分（春季 15 學分 + 夏季 6 學分 Global Challenge Lab 跨國顧問專案 + 秋季修完畢業課程），最快一年即可取得雷鳥碩士學位。

申請要件包含大學學歷、GPA 3.0 以上、語言檢定（接受 TOEFL、IELTS、Duolingo）、履歷、讀書計畫、推薦信及校友線上面試。

Boris（東吳在校赴 Thunderbird 雙聯學生）：
跟學弟妹分享我自己的心得：雙聯學位是一個 CP 值非常高的出國路徑。透過學分抵免 12 學分，能省下可觀的學分費。

目前亞利桑那因為台積電（TSMC）設廠，有非常多台灣企業進駐與龐大的就業機會。語言方面，除了托福、雅思，ASU 也接受多鄰國（Duolingo）測驗，對同學來說彈性很大。

留美工作方面，雷鳥的三個 STEM 認證主修（全球商業、全球數位轉型、資料科學）能讓外籍生享有 3 年 OPT 工作簽證，相較於傳統商管科系只有 1 年，在美國找正職的優勢非常明顯。在學期間，只要在校就讀滿兩個學期，第三個學期（秋季）就可以合法申請 CPT 進行校外實習（每週最多 20 小時，工作內容須與專業相關）。

呂明頴 老師：
我們巨資學院與雷鳥簽訂的合作中，Data Science 模組會直接修習 ASU School of Computing 及工學院的高階技術課程。提早準備、抵免 12 學分能省下非常可觀的費用。預計申請秋季或春季入學的同學，在年底前要開始著手各梯次的申請。

獎學金申請補充（Danish & Helen）：
雷鳥在評定獎學金時，GPA 達到 3.4–3.5 就已經足夠，不需要盲目追求更高。最關鍵的是「線上面試」與「日常溝通的專業度」。請花時間深入研究 Thunderbird 的文化與 MGM 課程，在面試與書信中展現你的積極度、成熟度與跨文化適應力，這往往是爭取高額獎學金的最核心關鍵。